The President:
This week, I laid out my
plan for our fiscal future.
It's a balanced plan that
reduces spending and brings down
the deficit, putting America back
on track toward paying down our debt.
We know why this
challenge is so critical.
If we don't act, a rising tide
of borrowing will damage our
economy, costing us jobs and
risking our future prosperity by
sticking our children
with the bill.
At the same time, we have to
take a balanced approach to
reducing our deficit -- an
approach that protects the
middle class, our
commitments to seniors,
and job-creating investments in
things like education and clean energy.
What's required is an approach
that draws support from both
parties, and one that's
based on the values of shared
responsibility and
shared prosperity.
Now, one plan put forward by
some Republicans in the House of
Representatives aims to reduce
our deficit by $4 trillion over
the next 10 years.
But while I think
their goal is worthy,
I believe their vision
is wrong for America.
It's a vision that says at a
time when other nations are
hustling to out-compete us for
the jobs and businesses of
tomorrow, we have to make
drastic cuts in education,
infrastructure,
and clean energy --
the very investments we need
to win that competition and get
those good jobs.
It's a vision that says that in
order to reduce the deficit,
we have to end
Medicare as we know it,
and make cuts to Medicaid that
would leave millions of seniors,
poor children, and Americans
with disabilities without the
care they need.
But even as this plan
proposes these drastic cuts,
it would also give $1 trillion
in tax breaks to the wealthiest
2% of Americans -- an extra
$200,000 for every millionaire
and billionaire in the country.
I don't think that's right.
I don't think it's right to ask
seniors to pay thousands more
for health care, or ask
students to postpone college,
just so we don't have to ask
those who have prospered so much
in this land of opportunity
to give back a little more.
To restore fiscal
responsibility,
we all need to share
in the sacrifice --
but we don't have to sacrifice
the America we believe in.
That's why I've proposed a
balanced approach that matches
that $4 trillion in
deficit reduction.
It's an approach that combs
the entire budget for savings,
and asks everyone
to do their part.
And I've called on Democrats and
Republicans to join me in this
effort -- to put aside their
differences to help America meet
this challenge.
That's how we've balanced
our budget before,
and it's how we'll
succeed again.
We'll build on the savings we
made from last week's bipartisan
budget agreement, while
protecting the job-creating
investments that are
critical to our future.
We'll find additional savings
in our defense budget.
Over the last two years, the
Secretary of Defense has taken
on wasteful spending that does
nothing to protect our troops or
our nation, saving $400 billion
in current and future spending.
I believe we can do that again.
We'll reduce health
care spending,
and strengthen Medicare and
Medicaid through common-sense
reforms that will get rid of
wasteful subsidies and increase
in efficiency.
We'll reduce spending in our tax
code with tax reform that's fair
and simple -- so that the amount
of taxes you pay doesn't depend
on how clever an
accountant you can afford.
And we should end the tax cuts
for the wealthiest Americans, too.
Because people like me
don't need another tax cut.
So that's my approach to reduce
the deficit by $4 trillion over
the next 12 years while
protecting the middle class,
keeping our promise to seniors,
and securing our investments in
our future.
I hope you'll check it out for
yourself on WhiteHouse.gov.
And while you're there, you can
also find what we're calling the
taxpayer receipt.
For the first time ever, there's
a way for you to see exactly how
and where your tax
dollars are spent,
and what's really at
stake in this debate.
Going forward, Democrats and
Republicans in Washington will
have our differences,
some of them strong.
But you expect us to
bridge those differences.
You expect us to work
together and get this done.
And I believe we can.
I believe we can live within our
means and live up to the values
we share as Americans.
And in the weeks to come, I'll
work with anyone who's willing
to get it done.
Thanks for listening.
And have a great weekend.